# Privacy Policy
Dvote Labs OÜ, registration number 14620143, located in Sepapaja tn 6, 11415 Tallinn, Estonia, and with the email address [info@vocdoni.io](mailto:info@vocdoni.io), is responsible for your personal data (henceforth known as “Data”).

**Device permissions**

For a better experience, while using our App, we may require you to give access to the Camera. This permission will only be used to scan QR codes and no data will be retained by us.

**Personal information**

Vocdoni collects and handles application usage data generated by users... to enhance our mobile application experience.  This telemetry information does not reveal your specific identity (like your name or contact information) but includes device and usage information: your IP address, device characteristics, operating system, language preferences.

We don’t share any personally identifying information publicly or with third-parties, except when required to by law.

Using forms, users can send data to register themselves to external organizations that use the app as a participation platform. Please be aware that we have no control over the content you share with these third-parties entities, and cannot accept responsibility or liability for their respective privacy policies.

**Changes to this Privacy Policy**

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. Thus, you are advised to review this page periodically for any changes. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. These changes are effective immediately after they are posted on this page.

**Contact us and exercise your rights to access**

Vocdoni would like to make sure you are fully aware of all of your data protection rights, based on the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Every user is entitled to the following:

You can exercise your rights to access, modify, deny or restrict the handling and portability of your data, as well as, revoke your consent at any time given to [info@vocdoni.io](mailto:info@vocdoni.io).
